---
Layout: post
title: "Paris: what to do and not to do"
categories: trips
tags: [trips, France, Paris, food, hotels, architecture, river, petitdejeuner, reastaurants travels, museums, toureiffel, versailles, louvre, joconde]
image: /assets/images/paris-tour.jpg
---


By travelling I have learnt that knowing a place does not mean visiting it all over. 

>_My Paris is: art everywhere in the city, the delicious fondue that makes you feel in paradise, the fashionable Parisian girls walking along the Seine, museums that fill up your afternoons and your soul._

**If you have only few days to spend in a new country, choosing between the many beautiful things it offers may be a little difficult. So I put together a list of “to do and not to do” to help you for your first time in Paris.** 

**Do not: book the cheapest hotel**


Finding a decent hotel for a reasonable price in Paris can bring even the savviest traveler to despair. You might find a screaming deal at a big chain hotel and think you have got it made, until you'll realize that you are missing out on the Parisian atmosphere in the city center.

**Instead: book a central accommodation**


Especially if you’re planning just a short period, it’s essential to stay in a convenient location that provides easy access to all the sights. An affordable option is to book your accommodations through Airbnb to see if anything is available in your price range. Many places have a kitchen which allows you to cook and save money by not eating out for each meal. In my case I booked at the Hotel De Champagne: an elegant and comfortable accommodation in return for frugal lunches. 
**Do not: enter the Towers of Notre-Dame**


The Cathedral itself is free and I recommend you to enter: its amazing interiors are one of the most beautiful Gothic examples in the world.
However to climb the 402 steps up the Towers you need to pay ten euros (gratis for under 26) and usually have to queue at least one hour, even if you have booked your ticket before. 

**Instead: visit the Holy Chapel and the Crypt of the Paris of Notre-Dame**


The stained glasses of the Holy Chapel are simply stunning: the whole Bible stories are painted on the windows to create a unique artwork.  
The Crypt is located in front of the Cathedral. Here you can walk around the well-preserved roman ruins and look at an interesting exhibition about the urban development through the centuries.



**Do not: expect to see everything in the museums**


As travelers, we have a tendency to put tremendous pressure on ourselves to try to see it all. Manage your expectations and make a plan in advance saving the rest for return visits.

**Instead: focus upon the most important exhibitions of Louvre and Musée d’Orsay.**


Rather than trying to achieve the impossible, research the works or wings you absolutely want to visit and aim to spend quality time there. I personally visited the Oriental wing and the Italian Painters one at the Louvre: the Mona Lisa is difficult to see but remains a must.
I particularly loved the Orsay Museum: with his Impressionist wing is the essence of the French culture! Pay also attention to the temporary exhibitions, they usually involve interesting subjects and famous artists.

**Do not: get a river cruise boat**


The Seine cruise boat is surerely a romantic and funny experience but it is not suitable to your first time in Paris. Enjoy your early moments in France with walks, talking with locals, appreciating peculiar neighborhoods and tasting food. Save the cruise boat for your second time in the French capital.

**Instead: go up the Tour Eiffel**


I always thought of the Eiffel Tower as the overrated symbol of Paris but I was wrong. This Tower is **not only an example of modern engineering but also an incredible experience for people which decide to go up.** 
>_After a short break at the second level for a coffee, go up at the last floor for an incredible and unique view of Paris: it take your breathe away!_ 

**Do not: spend hours in Champs Elisée and Arc du Triomphe**
The Champs-Elysées may have been the most beautiful avenue in the world, but they are currently overrun with global chain stores, auto dealerships and movie multiplexes. Whatever you do, do not  have your meals here: cafés prey on tourists while locals wouldn't be caught dead in one. 
The Arc de Triomphe: it is a monumental version of the Constantine one in Rome.

**Instead: concentrate a whole day in Versailles**


The Versailles Palace is very beautiful and magnificent, gold and marble stand everywhere in galleries and rooms like in The Arabian Nights.  
But the thing I love the most about this residence are the wonderful and huge gardens. On the other hand I had never heard about the smaller palaces around the main one. And then: ponds, canals, fountains with musical shows, English and Italian gardens. Everything here is a beauty to enjoy more than once in a lifetime. Do not make my mistake: walking through the extensive estate is impossible.  Better to rent a bike or take the little train that are on the right hand side as soon as you enter the Gardens. 

**Do not: visit the Centre Pompidou** 


The Parisians think that is a monstrosity on the eyes. It only takes one glimpse of the art museum to understand why: Its exterior ducts and escalators resemble a plumbing system, and are an attraction on their own...

**Instead: take a stroll in Montmartre**


The artsy Montmartre district is the original bohemian neighborhood of Paris, where famous artists like Van Gough, Degas, Picasso, Renoir, and Matisse lived and developed their artistic style. The neighborhood is fairly commercialized now, but you will still find picturesque Parisian streets, cafes, bakeries and shops. Check out the modern local artists and street musicians. Make sure to work your way up and down the streets of Montmartre: there are hidden gems and photo-opts around every corner!
**Do not: eat at Ladurée**


In spite of its fame, the experience at Ladurèe has been my only great disappointment in Paris. The petit-dejeuner was low-quality and scarce; also staff and service are not so good as you can imagined. So, save your money and go there to only buy one of the beautiful boxes of macarons.
**Instead: have your meals in local tasty restaurants**

I am giving you here some pieces of advices for spots in which you can have your meals.
For ones that love savory breakfast the croque-monsieur and an orange juice are the best combination, even better than coffee and croissant!
I tried delicious gratins and tartines at “Bistrot des Augustins”: they have also italian Lavazza coffee, a gem for espresso lovers. 
Finally, I had  in Paris three of the most tasty dinners of my life. The renowned fondue was simply amazingat “Pain, vin et fromage”; If you like taste odd flavours, order the tartare at “Au père Louis”, and the escargots at “L’auberge Cafès”.

**The tip of tips: book everything before arriving in Paris.**

In Paris there is a queue for everything. For this reason I planned only two activities to do each day during my Parisian weekend: in some cases the less the better. in primavera o autunno


The French capital nowadays is also its tragic recent history: an armored city obsessed (rightly) with security. However Paris has not lost its charm, it still remains one of the most fascinating and stunning cities in Europe.
 
