---
Layout: post
title: "A walk to remember: 20h in Dublin"
categories: trips
tags: [trips, Ireland, Dublin, food]
---
Here’s what happens when your _fiancé_ has an interview in Dublin and you have just seven hours in the morning to visit the city (alone). It could seem stressing spending only 20h hours in Dublin but I thought It would be a great occasion to have a small trip in a completely new country.

We arrived in Dublin at midnight because our flight was late, so we lost the taxi we booked. We decided to take the shuttle bus that luckily stopped just in front of the Spencer Hotel. I particularly recommend this hotel: it is on the North River, the staff is polite and rooms and service are satisfying.

Since every pub in Dublin closes at 11.30 PM, we tasted our first Guinness at the Spencer’s bar. This was the first and only view of my night in the Irish capital and it was so magical and romantic!

My morning in Dublin started with a continental breakfast at Seven wonder with a brioche and and orange juice. The good and fresh meal was a surprise since in Belgium, where I live, it is difficult to get a tasty breakfast at a decent price.

I walked along the Liffey to reach the city center between the sound of seagulls and the River’s flow. I noticed two wonderful bridges on my way: the Ha’penny, a small and ancient bridge, and the Samuel Beckett, that is the biggest and the most modern one in Dublin. 

I did not have enough time for museums and guided tours, this is why I had only a pleasant walk around the city center to enjoy the charm of the capital.

The first important place I met was the Trinity College. I loved the facade, the inner square, the classrooms and the student accommodation: after looking at them I wished I studied there!  Plus, the way Irish universities take care of their students makes you understand the value of education in a growing economy. 

Then I arrived at Temple Bar: this is the oldest and most historic neighborhood, with a lively nightlife and cultural attractions. Unluckily, it was only 9.30 AM when I passed by: The Temple Bar, the best known pub of Ireland, was closed until 10.30 AM. At least the Temple Bar Souvenirs was open and I bought a new travel mug for my collection!

The thing I loved the most of this district are the streets: small and friendly boulevards colored with flowers and flags.

I accidentally came across the Christ Church Cathedral: a wonderful gothic building with an incredible history that goes from the Vikings to nowadays. 

Brunch time! 
Yelp suggested me the Parliament Hotel Pub, with a 10 euros Irish Breakfast. I immediately noticed the Guinness and Carlsberg taps on each table: a very Irish trait! The meal is similar to the English Breakfast, although it has a more particular flavour. The full Irish breakfast consisting of bacon, pork sausages, tomatoes, pudding and fried eggs. But if it’s too much for you, make sure to try the white and black pudding alone. (Tip: do not dwell too long in the ingredients before taking a bite).

The second part of my “walking tour” took place in another area of Dublin, near the Grand Canal Dock, in the South East River. It is a fancy contemporary quarter, less crowded than the city center and with a young target.

foto di Maps
Many modern buildings and companies are placed here:

Facebook European Headquarter,

Google European Headquarter Office, 

I was impressed by the beautiful and huge Bord Gàis Energy Theatre facing the Fitzwilliam Square. This space is bounded by the Grand Canal Dock, a very windy place. I bought a magazine at the supermarket and I had my coffee here while reading. About supermarkets: they have a bar and newsstands like in American movies. So fascinating! 
Seagull had their lunch on the quay waiting to get some bread crumbs as I enjoyed the landscape. 

On the west side of the square, in Pearse Street, there is a nice park. It is an oasis of calm bordered by stunning Georgian buildings. They are some of the beautiful examples of georgian architecture, especially with their doors!  

Time to leave!
I had my taxi to the airport on the North side of the river. I reached it through the Samuel Beckett Bridge. We waited the car next to the Convention Center, known as the first carbon neutral constructed convention center in the world.

The return flight to Brussels was amazing: I saw Netherlands from above, their canals and the wind turbines in the North Sea were a unique scene. 

Thank you Dublin for this fantastic hours; What’s the next small trip?


















 












